So now it's really time to get started with Flutter and learn all about its details.
We're pretty much done getting started, in the next course module,
we'll dive into all the important basics of Flutter and you will learn all about how Flutter works, the
core widgets there,
how you build user interfaces with the widgets and so on, so that will be a crucial module of course.
Thereafter we'll dive into debugging because of course things can go wrong during development and finding
and fixing errors is an important part of being a developer,
so we'll have a look at how that works in the debugging section,
before we then have a section where we dive deeper into the basics if you will, dive deeper into
available widgets, into how to style and customize your widgets, how to add more logic to your application
and in general, build more realistic applications.
Now it is worth mentioning that all of these concepts are not just taught in boring theory but that
we build full apps and not just one app throughout the entire course
but we do have an app for the basics section,
we do have a different app for the more widget section and throughout the course, we'll have a couple
of applications,
some apps only for one section,
some apps which are used by multiple sections to show different concepts. This also gives you the advantage
that if you come back to the course after a while or you want to skip certain sections, you don't miss
a large chunk of a project we're working on,
instead many sections have their own projects and therefore it's easier to get into them. Now after having
a closer look at styling and building more realistic widgets,
you will also learn how to build responsive and adaptive user interfaces. Responsive simply means that
you have user interfaces that look good on different device sizes,
adaptive means that your user interface adapts to the underlying platform,
so to Android or iOS and for example, renders different widgets or a different layout if you want to.
After that, you'll have a solid understanding of the core foundations of Flutter, of the fundamentals
if you want to call it like that and therefore, we'll then dig deeper into the internals.
We'll have a look at how Flutter and its widgets work internally, how the app is re-rendered
when something changes and how you can optimize your code to improve the performance and improve how
your app works. With that out of the way, it's time for a new app and a brand new topic, navigation and multiple
screens. Up to this point in the course, we'll always have worked on one screen only but most apps have
more than one screen.
You might have a product screen and a card screen and a user profile screen
and here, you will learn how to set up different screens and how to navigate between them so that you can
switch pages in your app.
It's around that time that we will also see that for bigger apps, it can get pretty cumbersome to manage
the data correctly,
the data our app or the different parts of our app needs and therefore, we'll then have a look at state
management.
This is a super important course module where we will dive into the different options you have when
it comes to managing data and state which is in the end just a different term for data that changes
you could say. How you can manage that in bigger applications, how you can pass it around effectively,
how you can make sure that when something changes in a certain place in your app, all places that depend
on it are updated efficiently and we'll have a thorough look at this
in this module and for this, we'll also start a brand new project, just as we did in the navigation and multiple
screens section.
We'll then build up on that and dive into how you can manage user input and forms,
so how you can fetch e-mail addresses and URLs or numbers and have the user enter such data,
before we then learn how to connect our Flutter app to the web because up to this point we always just
worked on the device but some data needs to be stored in a database in the web and therefore here, you
will learn how to reach out to the web, how to reach out to such a database and store your data there
or get it from there.
Now most applications also need some form of authentication and therefore, it's then time to dive into
user authentication and learn how you can log users in, sign them up, log them out and manage their
session across the lifetime of your app,
really important for many applications of course. After that, we'll have a look at animations. Animations
are a crucial part of applications because they allow you to give the user a better feedback regarding
what changed on the screen and you will learn all about the built-in animation techniques Flutter offers
and how you can use them to create great user experiences and user interfaces. Now most native apps also
need access to certain device features, like the camera, maps, on device storage, things like that and therefore
this is also something we'll have a thorough look at in this module then. We'll again build a brand new application
for this module here and you will learn how to use the device camera, take an image, store that image, how
to store it on the device and also how to use Google Maps or get the user's location.
Now sometimes, you need some native device feature which isn't built into Flutter, where you have no easy
way of accessing it through Flutter.
Now for camera and maps, that is built in but maybe you have some use case where it's not built in.
Well then, you will also learn how you can run native device code, so Java code for Android for example
or Swift code for iOS, how you can run such code and connect it to your Flutter app so that you still
have one project
but in case it's missing, it's not built into Flutter,
you can actually run native device code triggered from inside your Flutter app.
That's a really cool feature and we'll cover this in this course as well.
Now once all of that is done, it's of course time to publish the app and I will show you how you can
build and optimize your app and then publish it to the Apple App Store or the Google Play store.
Well and with that, we're done.
I'll then round up the course, show you some next steps on how you can continue
and actually also give you a blueprint
you could say, for how you can develop great apps, which different phases are involved and what my recommendations
regarding that are,
so definitely check that out as well.
So as you can tell, there is a bunch of content in this course. I hope you'll like it,
we have a bunch of apps we're building
and by the end of the course, you should therefore feel really confident to build amazing Flutter apps and
build any app you want with the help of Flutter.